Cannabis treatment for Type 2 Diabetes Complications
src: http://reset.me/story/study-marijuana-benefit-people-diabetes/

Some of the complications that can ariser from Type 2 Diabtetes are:
1. Neuropathy
4 kinds
-peripheral : located in hands, arms, legs and feet

-autonomic : affects nerves that control blood glucose levels, blood rpessure and the heart

-focal : specific nerve damage to the head, torso and leg

-proximal : sometimes called diabetic amyotrophy, usually centrally located on one side of the body in the hips, thighs and buttocks

Several studies have shown vaporized cannabis to reduce pain and slow the advancing nerve damage of all four types of neuropathy. In some types, there was more than a 30 percent improvement without any significant impact on daily functioning or cognitive abilities

src: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18688212

2. Glaucoma
 People who have diabetes are 40 percent more likely to contract glaucoma than people without the disease. Glaucoma occurs when pressure builds inside the eye, eventually cutting off blood flow and damaging the optic nerve. 

 Medical cannabis can directly reduce the inflammation caused by the nerve damage and increased blood flow. However, since the relief is only temporary, some doctors believe that people need to partake every 2 or 3 hours (around the clock) to maintain a consistent eye pressure.


3. High Blood Pressure
High blood pressure is often a complication of Type 2 diabetes and, although medical marijuana does lower blood pressure, it also briefly elevates heart rate after smoking. 

As a result, marijuana isn’t recommended for those with pre-existing heart conditions. However, studies have shown that prolonged marijuana users have a tolerance for these side-effects and have suffered no adverse effects of the briefly quickened heart rates.


4. Peripheral Vascular Disease
Peripheral vascular disease is caused by atherosclerosis. 

People with high blood sugar levels caused by diabetes can have narrow, weak blood vessels, in addition to accelerated fat levels in the blood, and higher blood pressure which dramatically affects the rate of developing atherosclerosis. All of this exponentially increases the chance of angina, heart attacks, and strokes.

Although studies have shown that medical marijuana can significantly decrease angina, it can also cause acute coronary events. The increased heart rate, combined with the combustion inhalation of smoke, is thought to be one of the main reasons for the possible coronary complications and the lack of doctor recommendation
 